- [Instructor] Up until this point in the course,
we focused mainly on the collection interface
and its methods
Now, we'll start to examine specific collection interfaces
and implementations, starting with a quick look at sets.
The main thing that differentiates a set
from other collections is that
it does not store duplicate elements.
This is controlled internally by the collection,
which performs a comparison of new elements inserted
via the add method or a constructor
against those that already reside in the collection.
Our deep dive on the collection interface
will come in very useful when working with a set.
That's because the set only adds two additional methods
beyond those found on a collection interface.
These two additional methods, of() and copyOf(),
were added in later versions of Java
to help us create immutable sets.
If we examine the type hierarchy of a set,
you'll see the interfaces that extend it
and other set implementations.
You'll be very familiar with
the basic HashSet implementation
because it doesn't contain any additional methods
beyond those specified on the set interface.
The actual implementation uses a hash map
to back the set and elements in it do not retain any order.
It's subclass, LinkedHashSet, uses a linked list
to order elements, according to when they were inserted.
The SortedSet interface is used for sets
that iterate through elements in ascending order.
And its sub interface, NavigableSet,
extends that behavior to allow us to search for elements.
When working with the TreeSet implementation
of these interfaces elements must implement
the comparable interface,, or we need to provide
a comparator to determine the ordering.
So, that's a high level look at sets.
Let's jump into some code in our next lesson.